Welcome to session 1.04.
My name is Xavier Legros.
And I'll be talking to you
in the next hour about using
the Spotlight Query APIs.
So what are we going to do?
So what we're going to try to
do first is kind of give you
an overview of architecture,
kind of the technology behind Spotlight.
And this is going to be pretty much
a follow up from this morning's talk,
when Dominic actually went through
a couple of details about how
to write a Spotlight plugin.
And what we're going to do is that
we're going to pretty much implement the
second part of architectural graphics,
if you were this morning at the session.
In which case, we're going to do getting
metadata out of a file.
So we're going to teach you how you,
as a developer,
with a very simple set of APIs,
can query the data store to retrieve
metadata attribute on files.
And then we'll finish, actually,
with Vince,
who's going to be coming here.
He will show you another part
of creating the data store.
And in this case,
it's pretty much kind of the
contrary of creating a file.
In this case,
what we're going to be doing is pretty
much we have a set of parameters,
search, and we want, actually,
to get back all the files
that satisfy this search.
All right, let's get started.
So understanding the technology.
What's very,
very important for you as a developer,
because there are many solutions
out there that try to mimic
what Spotlight is doing,
what's very,
very important for you as a developer
to understand is that Spotlight
is not bolted onto the system.
Spotlight is fully integrated
inside Mac OS X Tiger.
So what does that mean?
That means that first,
at the heart of the Spotlight
technology is actually your server.
And that server is pretty
much a central piece that you,
as a developer,
will be pretty much interfacing with.
So let's see the two different set
of APIs that we have and pretty
much the two different features
that we have for Spotlight.
On your right, you're going to see the
first thing is that,
you know, we have a bunch of
documents on our hard drive.
You know, it could be on the desktop,
it could be on the document folder.
And the first part of the Spotlight
technology enables you as a developer
to pretty much extract that metadata
from the files that you know to actually
put them back in the Spotlight server.
What the Spotlight server is
going to do when your plugin
sends back that metadata,
it's going to do a couple of things.
First thing is that we're going
to store the metadata attributes
inside the metadata store.
And in that data store,
these are going to be attributes such as,
you know, KMDI 10 title, KMDI 10 author.
And Dominique went in details
this morning about how to write
that first piece of software,
the Spotlight plugin,
the Spotlight importer.
And then we have right now another
content store where actually what we're
going to store in there is more like,
you know, the text content.
And, you know, the main idea here,
which is, by the way,
does not matter too much
for you as a developer.
It doesn't impact you as a
developer to the technology.
But here in this case,
what's important for you to understand
is how things are fitting in the system.
And here the content store will store
pretty much a binary representation of
actually the text that you're going to
pass through the KMDI 10 text content.
[Transcript missing]
All right, so what do we have?
As a developer,
you have three different set of APIs to
help you interface with Spotlight.
Okay, the plugin APIs first,
and once again, we went through great
details this morning.
The key point here is
that if as a developer,
your application or your tool
or whatever your business is on
Mac OS X generates a custom file.
What I mean by that is like, you know,
a file that, you know,
is only your application
knows how to read.
You have to write a Spotlight
plugin to interface with our system,
okay?
And once again,
this is very straightforward.
If you didn't go this morning,
come back to the lab and we'll show you.
This is very, very straightforward.
The second part of APIs,
and which is kind of like the first
part for querying of a Spotlight server,
is actually getting the meta--
what I call the get metadata APIs.
And here in this case
is that you have a file,
and what you want to do is
find out what are the metadata
associated with that file.
So you have an FSPEC, you have a CFURL,
whatever you want.
And you want to find out
maybe the creation date,
maybe what's the author,
what are the key presence.
So that's going to be the first
thing we're going to do today.
And the last part,
which I think is actually like a very
powerful set of APIs and very simple,
is you want to query the database and
get back results like a set of files.
So you want to say,
show me all the files on
my system that are JPEGs,
that have the flash turned on,
and that type of resolution.
And then we send you back a set of files.
You know, a little bit like what
the Finder is doing,
obviously.
As a developer,
what's important for you to
understand is that in your project,
Carbon or Cocoa,
it doesn't really matter.
In Xcode, what you have to do is
link against core services.
The metadata framework is
actually present inside the
core services framework.
And I suppose most of you are already
linking against that framework.
All right, so I gave you a quick
overview of the architecture,
the different set of APIs you
can use depending on what
you're trying to achieve.
Remember, you have a custom file format.
Use a Spotlight plugin.
Write a Spotlight plugin.
Then after that, you want to do queries.
We have two different type of queries.
First type of query
will be you have a file,
you want to get the metadata.
And that's what we're going to
do here in this part of Apprezzo.
All right, so first, as a developer,
why would you want to query the Spotlight
server for getting back metadata?
Well, a couple of cases.
Case number one, you're an application.
And it could be you're doing 2D
content or you're doing 3D content,
but your application generated
files that has been actually using
different other file formats.
And what I mean by that is that take,
for instance, a 2D drawing application.
And the guy, the user,
goes and selects a JPEG file,
drags and drops it
inside your application.
Maybe you want to keep a
reference of that file.
And maybe you want actually to present
the metadata associated with that file.
So this is the type of
API you will be using.
Another idea would be, obviously,
if you wanted to display the properties
for your own document or if you're in
the business of tracking documents,
for instance.
Maybe your application manages
different revisions of files across
the product cycle or a project cycle.
And you wanted to query, well,
I'm working on advertising for the
Apple computer right now on the T1.
And I want to get all my PDF files.
And I want to get all my JPEG files
and all my Postgres files.
Maybe you want to do a query and
get back specific attributes from
these files inside your project.
This, once again,
would be the type of APIs you would
be using to achieve that feature,
to implement that feature.
A couple of examples that we have.
Remember this morning-- I don't
know if you were here this
morning-- but in Dominic's talk,
he went to the Finder.
And in the Finder,
when you command I to get
the information of the file,
we get pretty much the metadata
information associated with the file.
That would be the type of feature you
could implement in your application,
get info panel type.
All right.
Before we go and we dig a little bit
more about the APIs and how you're
going to be able to implement that,
how you're going to be able
to architect your application
to achieve these features,
I need to talk to you a little
bit about the MD item ref.
The MD item ref,
think of it as this little nice box that
actually the Spotlight server manages.
Each file on the system is represented
in the Spotlight data store by the
Spotlight server as an MD item ref.
So think of it as a representation
of the Spotlight server.
Think of it as a representation
of the files on the disk.
And each MD item ref can contain
several metadata attributes.
Could have a KMDI item author,
could have the pixel resolution,
the width, the height, but as well,
as we saw this morning,
it could contain as well
file system attributes.
And here in this case, I don't have any,
but you have to understand
that inside the data store,
we have actually the file
system creation date,
the modification date, the file size.
Okay?
So all these attributes are actually
available as well through that simple set
of APIs are stored in the MD item ref.
So this is pretty much the key
object you're going to be using,
you're going to be manipulating in
order to query the Spotlight server.
[Transcript missing]
All right,
so how does it look like as a code?
Once again, very, very straightforward.
Step number one, remember,
mditemcreate to get an mditemref
for representation of a file.
Here in this case,
we hard-coded something with a CFSTR,
you know, the macro to create a
CFString on the stack.
But in your case, if you have an FS spec,
you go back to a CFURL,
and from the CFURL,
you get back the CFString,
and you're in business.
So you pass that to mditemcreate,
the default allocator, we don't care,
and the path.
And you get the CFString.
And you get back this little nice,
this neat little object, an mditemref.
Great.
So that's step number one.
That's cool.
At that point, what do we have?
Very simple, just the link,
an iditemref that is represented
on the Spotlight server,
and our file on disk.
Okay?
All right, step number two.
Remember, now we're going to go
and query the data store.
We're going to query the server to say,
OK, tell me all the different
keys that that file contains.
Tell me all the metadata keys,
I should say, that that file contains.
Very straightforward.
We're going to define a CFR.
So all the names of the keys.
And remember,
when I say the name of the keys here,
I talk about the com, underscore,
com.camdi item, blah, blah, blah,
or whatever keys you will be using.
And what we're going to do is that we're
going to call mdi item copy attributes.
And we're going to pass the item ref.
Very simple.
That sends us back an array.
And inside this array,
we have all the keys that are present.
We have the keys at that point in time,
but we don't have actually
the associated values with it.
So what you're going to be doing
from there is that two things.
You could go back and say,
call mdi item copy attributes.
And we send you back all the keys
with all the attributes associated.
But maybe in your case,
you want you to be
able to be more clever,
I would say,
and just request a couple of keys.
Maybe some files will have 40 attributes.
And in this case,
you don't want to do that.
So between the mdi item copy attribute
names and the mdi item copy attributes,
you could actually just go and
work the name array and just remove
maybe some of the keys in there.
Very straightforward.
So at that point, what do we have?
Very simple.
We get better results,
which is pretty much like
an array of keys and data.
Here in this case,
you can see that Vince has been doing
some trading and has $10 billion
probably in his account balance,
which is pretty good, we think,
for an Apple engineer.
And we have actually a couple of
keys associated with all that data.
So that's pretty nice,
but there are two things
that are weird here.
The first thing is, how did Vince get $10
billion during day trading?
But that's just a side question.
The real question for
this session is that,
would it be better if we
could actually have real text,
right?
What you want to see is
what that key really means.
So when you send back
the result to the user,
you could display real data.
Obviously, you don't want to send back
that and show that to the user.
So, good text, absolutely,
we have good text.
And here, the main idea,
what we're going to achieve now is
that we're going to try to get the
text that is associated with the key.
But is there actually better?
So what you can do with a very
simple API actually is get back
the localized names of attributes.
And the key point here is to achieve,
instead of getting back
the KMDItem author key,
what you get back is, I want authors.
And obviously,
if it's authors in English and
you're running in French,
what you would like is like, auteur.
Make a difference?
In French.
And what is very cool is that if
you've been to this morning talk,
you know that people writing Spotlight
plugins for their file format can
actually define their own keys.
And when you define your own key,
you know, in the schema file,
you're going to be able
actually to define,
you know, a description as well.
So you could have, you know,
the fact that this key is
author and give a description.
This is the author for the document,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
All right,
so how are we going to do that?
How to obtain localized
names for our attributes?
First thing, you're going to call
mdschema.copyDisplay,
name for attribute,
and I think it's probably easier
for you to just read on the screen.
And you're going to pass
the key that you get back.
In this case, it's, you know,
I just coded it here, but you know,
what you will do is probably pass, like,
you know, an ID from, like, you know,
the CFArray that we got back previously,
okay?
Very easy.
And then you get back a CFStringRef,
which is pretty much the full name.
Excellent.
So that will send us back, for instance,
in this case, if I were to pass kmd
item video bit rate,
db video if I was reading in French,
and video bit rate in English.
Sorry, my English is a little bit rusty.
What's very,
very important is that if you're
in the case of writing a Spotlight
plugin for your file format,
it's very,
very important as well that you offer
translations for all of these keys.
I know that some of you may think
that there is no French person
that would use our software,
but trust me,
we do have a bunch of US software
and it's great when it's
localized in different countries.
So if you're writing
your Spotlight plugin,
remember you can localize all these keys.
So please pay attention to that.
All right.
So now remember what I said
is that here in this case,
what we've done is that we go back,
you know, not the description,
but pretty much like, you know,
what the key is about.
So in this case, author.
What is nice is that as well,
you may want to get the full
description of what that key does.
And here in this case, once again,
very simple API that will send you back
the localized version of a description.
MD schema copy display
description for attribute.
We're going to try to make
longer API names next year.
And you pass the key.
And once again,
same thing that before here,
what you would be doing is you would
probably pass an ID inside the CFRA that
was sent back from the previous API.
So what did we achieve here?
We get back, for instance, in this case,
that would be the name of the media file,
what the name of the media file is,
or whatever full description you
would have in your schema file.
So in this first part,
what we did is that we
got an MDI time ref.
Remember, from there,
we queried and we got back all
the list of the keys that actually
are stored in the data store.
And then after that,
I queried the Spotlight server
to send me back only the data
that I wanted for the keys.
Once you have that,
I show you very simple APIs that enable
you to get the localized name of the
key and the localized description.
To show you that in action,
I can invite on stage Vince,
Monsieur Vince, as we call him.
Hello.
And Vince is going to walk you back
through the code and show you the
second part of his presentation.
Thanks.
Oh, can you go back to the slide again?
So hi, I'm Vince DeMarco.
Can you go back to the presentation?
So I'm Vince DeMarco,
and I'm a member of the
Spotlight engineering team.
So what I'm going to do today
is show you what Xavier just
showed you a little while ago.
So I'm going to make a
graphical version of MDLS.
MDLS is a command line tool
that lets you see all the
metadata associated with a file.
Except in this version,
what's basically going to happen
is you're going to take a file
from the Finder and drag it and
drop it on the-- on the window.
So all you see in the top
half is a little text field
with the path of the file,
and then a table view
showing all the data.
Can you switch to the demo one?
So I'm not going to describe all
the code that's going on here,
but what happens as soon as the file is
dropped from the finder onto this window,
this method, file dropped,
is going to get called.
So within the notification
that gets passed,
in the user info is a list of all
the paths that the person selected.
I don't really care about all the paths,
so I'm just going to grab the first one.
So the first thing I'm going to do is
just set the text field at the top of the
window with the path the user selected.
So the first step I want to do is
I want to get the MD item ref for
the file that the person created,
that the person just
dragged and dropped there.
So I get that.
Before I go any further,
I really need to check to make sure
that the ref that I got back is valid.
So if any error occurs,
we end up returning null.
A possible error is the file got,
the person does not have permission to
read the file or the file may have been
deleted in the process of doing the drag.
So as the drag was released,
the file went away.
So now that we know that
we have an MD item ref,
we're going to go ahead
and create a new file.
So I'm going to go ahead
So the first step is to get all
the interesting attribute names.
So Xavier showed that.
All this window is going to do is
show all the possible attributes,
not any select set.
So this will return an array
of all the attribute names.
The next step, I want to get a list of
all the attribute values.
So I'm going to get the CFDictionary back
of everything that I want.
So now that I've got all the data,
I'm basically going to tell
the table view to update.
So I'm going to go ahead and say, "Hey,
this is the table view.
I'm going to get the
name of the table view.
I'm going to
So table view in Cocoa basically
shows rows and columns of data.
So in this case, I've got two columns
and n number of rows.
And the number of rows is equal to
the number of attributes in the array.
So I'm just going to
return that as the count.
So the number of attribute names,
if that has been set, is just equivalent.
So the number of items in the
array is equivalent to the
number of rows in the table view.
So the last step here is to
actually just try to display
all the data in the two columns.
So the first column is the name of
the property that I'm interested in.
Actually, the first thing I want to do
is I want to get the attribute
name for that particular row.
So TableView, as it's loading its data,
calls you and tells you that it
wants the data for a particular row.
So in this case, it's like row n.
So the first thing I want to do is
I'm going to grab the attribute out
of the array that I'm interested in.
So I'm going to grab attribute name out
of the inspected ref attribute names.
So next,
I want to return this property back
to the TableView to display it.
So I'll just simply return that.
And then the last thing I want to do in
the second column is I actually want to
display the individual pieces of data.
So that entails just looking
it up in the dictionary.
So I'm going to grab the value
out of the inspected attribute,
inspected ref attribute values,
which is the dictionary
of the keys and values,
and then return it.
This code down here is just
basically trying to reformat the
data to make it look a little nicer.
Here, so I'll compile this and we can go.
So here's the window that
I just ran from the program.
So we'll go into Finder and I'll
drag and drop a file onto it.
So here's the file that I just selected.
So here's all the attributes
associated with the file.
So the things that are interesting
is-- so this file's got two keywords.
It's a Lotus and a lease.
And this file was taken
with a Minolta camera.
It's a JPEG image.
So you can see all the content types.
So all the first column and the name
of the property is not in English.
Even we have API.
So the next step would be to
localize these values so they're
displayed a little nicer.
So this is really easy.
So right here,
after we-- instead of grabbing
the-- so instead of grabbing the
original value-- so attribute name.
Oops.
Oh, jeez.
So instead of returning the attribute
name like I was doing in the past,
I simply call mdSchema copy
display name for that attribute
that I was going to display.
The thing to note here with mdSchema
copy display name attribute is
right here I'm checking if it
actually has returned any value.
If it returns a value, then it's okay to
display that to the user.
If it doesn't return anything,
the intent is it's not--it
shouldn't be a user visible value.
It's not interesting
to the user to see it.
So I--and I will show you this.
So if we run the same program again,
one more time with the same file.
So all the interesting
user visible things,
so instead of saying KMDItemDevice,
AcquisitionDevice,
now it says DeviceMake here.
And then the keywords,
instead of saying KMDItemKeywords,
it says Keywords in English.
There's other things like exposure time,
so it's all...
The one thing I didn't
do in this program,
which you may have noticed,
is I'm leaking all the
MD item refs up at the bottom.
So if you drop the second file in,
you'll leak the first one.
So to be nice to the system,
I should probably clean this up,
and I'll just do this right now.
So all you have to do here is
if we have an old inspected ref,
[Transcript missing]
And so I don't know anything's happening.
I'll send them to null.
OK, that's it for that.
I won't bother running
it because I just did.
So can we switch back to the slides now?
So that's basically how you get
all the data for individual items.
So the next step would actually
be to perform a query to find a
file that's interesting to you.
So why would you even want
to search for any files in
Spotlight within your application?
Well, the first thing that comes to
mind is it's a cool feature
and you should probably just
do this in your application.
But a more legitimate thing would be to
enable search within your application.
So it allows the user a new
way to find interesting files.
So one example that comes to mind is if
you're writing a 3D modeling program.
and the person wants to find a
skin texture to apply one of their
objects in the modeling program,
but they have thousands of textures.
It would be impossible for them.
They really don't want to get
a preview for all 1,000 files,
try to find which one they're
actually interested in.
So it would be nice if some part
in your UI they could type skin,
narrow the search list down to 10 and
then only have to get a preview of
10 individual items instead of 1,000.
Another thing is to
find related documents.
So now more and more
people are working on,
like more and more documents to
get their individual work done.
So an example of this
would be making a magazine.
So if you make an article in a magazine,
you need the, you
The desktop publishing program
to put all the files together,
you need the text for the article
and any associated pictures.
So it would be nice if within the desktop
publishing program they could say,
"Tiger article Spotlight by me,
Vince DeMarco," and then find
all the related files and then
pop them all together and make
the finished presentation.
So how do you actually
search within Spotlight?
It's actually as simple
as Xavier just showed you.
So there's just a few key
objects you need to understand.
You need to understand how
the query language operates.
You need to understand the
different modes of the queries and
then we're going to go together,
bring this all together and implement
an example to show you how to do this.
So searching with Spotlight
requires the two key objects.
So the first one is MD Item Ref,
which represents a file on disk.
I'm not going to go into any further
because Xavier explained that a little
earlier within the presentation.
The next item that's of
interest is the MD Query Ref.
So this represents,
it's a calculation of the query
results and the query string itself.
So the query language within Spotlight
is a simple C-like expression.
So you have an attribute on one
side is equal to a particular value.
So in this case,
I'm searching for KMDItemContentType,
which is the type of the file,
and it's equal to public.rtf.
This will basically return all
RTF files stored within the system.
So all the different types,
you can have numbers, strings,
and dates of all the attributes,
and we have all the standard
operators that you can do in C.
The only one of note that's interesting
is you can do ranges of numbers.
You can group the APIs with ands, ors,
and parentheses,
and you can do logical knots of
the big group of expressions.
So some examples of some queries.
So once again,
if I want to find all the plain
text documents in my file,
I have KMDItemContentType.
That's the attribute name and
I'm searching for the value
of it is public.plain-text.
So the second example is if I want
to find all the documents with my
system that have the word WWDC.
So I'm searching for my presentation.
So I'm searching for KMDItemTextContent,
the attribute, is equal to the value,
or in this case contains the value, WWDC.
The third example is I'm
searching with an array.
In Dominic's talk this morning,
he described the keywords are
actually an array of strings.
So a document can have many
keywords associated with it,
not just one.
So in this case, I want to find all the
documents that have the keyword
"important" associated with them,
and it could be--it would
return a whole bunch of them.
The last example,
I'm searching--I'm basically searching
for the attribute "display name"
and I want to find all documents
that start with an uppercase A and
are any random number of characters.
of any length.
So in all these examples I'm showing,
I'm finding actually exact matches.
So the last one I'm finding A,
any document that starts with the
upper case A but of any length.
It would be interesting if I could do,
if I could narrow the search down without
having to be really explicit in my query.
So to do this we have
string match modifiers.
So there's three basic
At the end of every query you
can specify a C which means that
the query is case insensitive.
So in this case Spotlight
all lower case is equivalent
to Spotlight all upper case.
The second string match modifier
is the diacritic insensitivity.
So if I have a bunch of
English documents and a bunch of
French documents in my system,
Since I'm a native English speaker,
I'm not going to spell elegant correctly
in French with the accent on both the Es.
I'm probably going to spell
it in the English form.
Same if I'm searching the document.
If I'm a French user,
I'm going to put the accents.
If I'm an English user,
I'm not going to really bother.
So this is so you can say
elegant is equivalent to elegant
with the quotation marks,
with the accents, I'm sorry.
The last modifier is I want to
find is the word-based modifier.
So it detects transitions in the case.
Lots of times people end up
doing camel casing words.
So you go Spotlight with
a big S and a big L.
And they're actually using
that to signify that those
are two separate words,
but they're written together.
Same thing with text edit
or interface builder.
So in this case,
light is equivalent to spotlight.
So that word exists in that match.
But the second example we have, Paris,
is not equal to comparison.
This would be a match if in
comparison it was an uppercase
C and we had an uppercase P in the
Paris and an uppercase O in the on.
Then it would match.
So if we put this all together,
I want to find...
All the files on my system that
have the attribute KMDItemTitle
that contain the word light,
and I'm going to search
it word insensitive,
diacritic insensitive,
and case insensitive.
Oh, and the word match too,
it also applies to spaces, underscores,
and dashes and dots too.
So if we want to-- it would be
interesting to put this all together.
All the type information in Spotlight
is based off of the UTI hierarchy.
And in UTI hierarchy,
everything is inherited.
So we have at the top of the hierarchy,
we have public.data or public.content.
And below that,
somewhere we have like public.image.
And all the image file formats
inherit from public.image.
So this allows you to find, for example,
all the audio content or
all the image content.
So instead of having to
find all the public.jpg,
public.gif,
Tiff, etc.
All the hundreds of different file
formats you can say in one query.
Well, they edited that wrong.
So I can find KMDItemContentTypeTree
equals public.image.
Ignore the equals equals WWC at the end.
That's wrong.
So this would find all the image
files known to the system with
one query without having to
specify the each individual types.
But you could do that if you needed to
and you only wanted TIFF or JPEG images.
So you can put these all together
to make a more complicated query.
So in this case,
I want to find all the images
on my system that have an
alpha channel and have a height
DPI greater than equal to 300.
So it's KMDItemContentTypeTree
is equal to public.image.
That's all the image files.
And KMDItemResolutionHeightDPI is
greater than equal to 300.
And KMDItem has alpha
channels equal to 1.
So that attribute is set.
So we'll do a little demo using MDFind.
Can you switch to the demo machine?
So MDFind is a little command line tool.
That lets you type in
queries and get back results.
So what I'm going to do as a
query is I'm going to find all the
application files on the system.
So remember at the beginning,
a couple of slides ago I described
that the UTI Harkey is inherited.
So we have different kinds of
applications on the system.
So you can have a packaged application
or a non-packaged application,
but they all inherit from
com.appleapplication.
So we can find all application
files on the system.
The item.
So that'll be all the
applications on this machine.
And there's quite a few of them.
I'm not going to read each
individual one out to you.
That'll take too long.
So we've got lots of files there.
So I want to narrow down the query
to find only applications that have
that only applications that
have an A in their display name.
So I'm just doing *,
a* and then making it word, diacritic,
and case-insensitive.
So if we run this query again,
the list is a little bit smaller.
So in the last step,
I want to try to narrow
this down any more.
I want to find all applications
that are copyright by Apple.
So we'll just keep extending this query.
So I'm just going to find the
word Apple within the word,
within the document,
within the copyright string.
So I'm going to do this word insensitive,
diacritic insensitive,
and case insensitive too.
So let me clear this screen.
So now we have a much smaller list again.
So let me just run this query
again with a smaller list.
So if we do only applications
that have to start with A instead.
There's a little demo
and you have a lot left.
The interesting thing,
the only real thing of note,
can you switch back to the slides?
The only thing of note to take from that
demo is while you're making your query,
it's best if you just
try it out on MDFind.
You don't have to write
any code and you can see,
you should try to make a query so
you're basically trying to narrow
it down to a small set of files so
you can try your query on MDFind
and see if it narrows down to the
files you're actually interested in.
So the next step now that
you know how to make,
you know how to write some simple
queries and you need to implement
the search within your application.
There's basically two ways you can
implement search within your application.
You can open the Spotlight search window,
so that's that little menu
on the top hand corner.
If the person types in a string,
you get the results and you
can select the show all window,
show all, which brings up the
Spotlight results window.
The second way of doing this
all is just to simply perform a
query within your application.
So opening the Spotlight
window is really,
really simple.
And it provides a really easy way
for you to integrate Spotlight
within your application with
a minimal amount of work.
So all you need to do in this case
is call "hi search window show" with
a string you want to search for.
This is the same string that the
user would have typed into the
field in the Spotlight window.
This is already integrated
in a couple of applications.
For example, Address Book.
You get the--there's a little action
menu at the top window of Address Book.
It says search in Spotlight.
It's basically doing this.
And in TextEdit, if you select a word
within your document,
you can go Spotlight and you
find all occurrences of that word
everywhere in--on your hard disk.
This is great to provide--present
related items to the user,
but you as an application
developer cannot interact
with this window in any way.
You can simply present it and that's it.
So if you actually want
to do anything further,
you need to write a query
within your application.
Executing a query in your application
is three simple steps again.
So the first step is to
create an empty query ref.
The second step is to register the
callback so you get notified of
updates and changes to the query.
And the third is to execute the query.
So step one.
is to create the MD Query ref.
So all I'm doing here is
I have a query string.
In this query I'm searching
for KMDItemContentType is
equal to public.plain-text.
I'm searching once again for all
plain text documents within my system,
on my system.
And you just call empty query create and
the second parameter is the query string.
This creates a standard CF type object
which you can retain and release and you
can put in all the CF collection classes.
So the second step after
you've created your query is
to register for the callbacks.
The reason that this is the second
step and not the first step is in
CF Notification Center at Observer,
you're basically telling it
which query you want to observe.
It's the second to last parameter.
It says query.
I want to be notified of
any changes on this query.
You can also pass null and get notified
of any query happening on the system.
The other thing that's really
interesting to note here is that
I called the CF Notification Center.
I got the local center,
not the distributed center.
This just got added into Tiger recently.
You would do the same thing
in a foundation class.
You just register with
NS Notification Center,
the default center.
So in my example, I'm only listening for
the finished notification,
but you'd also typically listen for the
progress and the update notifications.
So of the three notifications we sent,
the first notification we sent
is the progress notification.
So as your query is running and
the server is gathering results,
as it sends the results back
to your client application,
you get the progress notification so
you could do something in your UI.
So you could update a table or increase
the size of a menu and show the person
the results as they're being fetched.
The second notification we sent
is the finish notification.
So as the server's finished
and completed your query,
it's gotten all the results
it can at this point,
it's going to send you this
notification saying it's all done.
So maybe you could
stop the spinny cursor,
I mean the little spinny
progress indicators.
or notify the user that they're done.
The last notification that we
send is the update notification.
So after the query is finished,
it goes into the update phase.
So as the user creates or destroys files
that match or don't match your query,
the results that will
change as this is happening.
The only thing to note here,
this is only get sent
if the query is live,
which I'll explain in just a second.
So, step two and a half,
you have to implement the
notification callback.
So this is what you would do in CF.
So this is the standard
thing you would do in CF.
There's really nothing special here.
You could do the same
thing in Foundation.
It would just be
Objective-C classes instead.
So the thing that's interesting
here and the same thing applies to
in Foundation is the object that
sent the notification is your query.
So you can use this to look up
whatever information that you need.
You might need to get from
the query to know what's
So the last step we need to do is now
we need to actually execute the query.
So this is simple.
We simply call md query execute.
The first parameter is the query
and the second one is flags.
By default, you could pass zero,
which I'll explain what that means.
So in this case,
I'm calling--and the flags
can be one of two things.
So we can say--if we say on the flags
and you order them all together,
you can say k md query
synchronous which means
KMD Query will not return
until it's fetched all the
results that are available.
Basically, until you would have gotten
that finished notification.
The second flag is
KMD Query wants updates.
This is telling you after
the query is finished,
if the user deletes or
creates any new files,
let me know about it.
So by default,
if you set the flag to zero,
your query will be running asynchronously
and you will not get updates.
So the next step after you've executed
the query and you've gotten the
notification somewhere is you need
to retrieve the individual results.
So the retrieving results
basically involves two calls.
It's only two calls because conceptually
you can think of an MD query as an array.
So an array, a read-only array really has
only two appropriate calls.
You can ask it how many things are in
the array and you can get an individual
item anywhere within the array.
So hence we have these two calls.
So we have MD query get results count
and MD query get results at index.
So MD Query Get Results Count just
simply returns the number
of items in the result set.
And there's really not much to that.
You just get the count and
you can iterate over them.
The next, as you're iterating over them,
you can get the particular
item at a particular index.
So you simply call mdquery,
get results at index.
And just get the mditemref at
that particular index value.
So the thing to note with
retrieving results is if you've
started your query in live mode,
as your query is executing,
the query result set
is constantly changing.
So if at one point you ask it,
give me item at index 4,
by the time in your code,
you want to know you get index 4.
So if you stashed away this
index you're interested in,
then later in your program,
after some period of time,
you go to array index 4,
it might not even be there.
And it might be out of bounds now.
So to get around this problem,
while you're currently iterating,
you can update, enable,
and disable the query.
So basically everything's kind
of freeze dried for that period
of time so you can look at it.
You don't need to do this.
If you're only going to be looking at
the results set within the callback,
within the notification callbacks,
you don't really have to
enable and disable the query.
That's really done for you.
And enabling and disabling
a query is stacked.
So if you've done four enables,
you need to do four disables.
Or, I'm sorry, backwards.
If you do four disables,
you need to do four enables for
it to get turned back on again.
If they don't match,
it'll stay in the last state that it was.
So the biggest thing to take away
from this is the results are live.
Everything can come and go
as you're working on them,
so be aware of that.
So we'll do a little demo to do a query.
So this is going to be this application,
which is a simplified
version of the search window.
So basically in that top search field,
you're going to type some string
that you're looking for and then
you'll get the results below.
So can we switch to demo one please?
Let me just get a drink of water.
So the first thing we do as the user
is typing into the top search field,
what's happening is the start search
method is going to get called.
So as they type in a character
and the appropriate delay,
however the Cocoa search field operates,
we get the string that the user entered.
So the first thing we want to
do is create a query string from
what the user just typed in.
So we're going to basically
do a very simple query.
We're going to find all the metadata
star is equal to what the user typed in.
And we're going to know our case.
We're going to be word insensitive,
case insensitive,
and diacritic insensitive.
And we're also going to search the text
content equals what the user typed in.
And we're going to do case
and diacritic insensitive.
The thing to note here is I'm
not checking if they've typed any
special characters like quotes
and any of that kind of stuff,
so if they type a quote,
the query's probably
going to be malformed.
But for this demo, it'll be just fine.
So now that we have the query string,
the next step is to
create the MD query ref.
So given the query string right here,
I'm going to create the MD Query
Ref with a default allocator.
So once again,
to make sure that the person
hasn't typed in just some garbage,
so they can type "hello" quote there,
which in this case wouldn't parse
because we didn't have enough quotes.
You really would have to escape it,
but I'm not doing any of that.
So what we're going to do is
check if the query is okay.
If the query is okay,
the next step I'm going to do is
I'm going to register for all the
notifications that I'm interested in.
So in this case,
I'm going to do this in Objective-C.
I'm going to register with the
With a default notification center.
So I'm registering the
finished notification,
the progress notification,
and the update notification.
And I'm going to have them
call my update data method.
And I'm only interested in the
current query that I'm executing.
So now that I've registered
for the notifications,
the next step I need to do is
actually execute the query.
So I'm going to execute the query
and I'm going to tell the system that
I want to be notified of updates.
I'm also running it asynchronously
because I haven't put any flags there.
So now that I've got the query back,
so now the query's going
to start running in the UI.
So the next step I want to do
is I want to update the UI.
So as the query is executing,
I'm just going to call-- my update data
colon method is going to get called.
And in this case,
I'm going to reload the table view.
This call, and then I'm going to set
the title of the window.
So the title,
I'm just going to say the query that the
person entered in and how many matches
they currently have at this point.
And then the number of
matches at this point,
I'm just going to call
MD Query Get Results Count,
which will say that I have 10 or 14
or however many I have at that point.
So the final step
is now I need to update the
table view in the result query.
So the number of rows in the
table view is equal to the
number of items in the query.
So if the person did enter
a query that we have,
I can ask the query for its result count.
If we don't have a query,
then I'll simply return zero.
So then the last step in the table view,
table view wants to get the
data that it wants to display.
So it's going to pass me the
column that it's interested in,
which is that,
and then the row that I'm interested in.
So the first thing I'm going to do is,
given the row, I'm going to get the query
result at the particular index.
So I'll get the MD item ref.
You'll notice here I'm not-- yeah,
I probably-- in this code,
I really should be enabling
and disabling the query.
I'm not doing that here, and technically,
that's incorrect too,
but it'll work for this demo.
So if I'm updating the first column--
All I'm going to do is I'm going to get
the path of the individual attribute,
calling mditemcopyattribute,
with the mditemref
that I'm interested in,
which I've just gotten above right here,
and then I want the attribute path.
So I'm going to take the path and then
I'm going to call NSWorkspace and get
the icon for that particular path.
And then the last step here is
So I'm going to have the two
columns in the table view.
The first one's going to be the icon,
and the second column will be
the display name of the file.
So the display name is equivalent
to what you would see in the Finder
if you were looking at it there.
So I'm just going to go the same thing,
the same-- do the same thing again.
I call mditemCopyAttribute
with the mditemRef of interest,
which I got above again,
and I get the display name.
And I set that to object
and then release them.
So if we build this one-- whoops.
Oh, so I have a syntax error here.
There we go.
This is just to show
you that it's all live,
and I'm not faking this all.
So here's the query.
So if I type in "Lotus,"
I end up getting 18 matches,
and here's all the files.
So in this case, they're all pictures.
I can go a little further and
type "dress book," and I get...
Some cards from address book,
applications,
and then any source code that
happens to be on the system.
Okay,
can we switch back to the slides please?
So now you know how to do
all the simple type queries.
Now we need to take this a
step a little further and do
something more interesting.
So this is where I'm going to talk
about some more advanced topics.
The first thing you
noticed in my little demo,
I didn't do any sorting.
They just came back in the array--
in the order that they happen
to come back in the server.
So the metadata library provides
some simple sorting you can do.
The only sorting that it actually
does is sort in ascending order.
So in this case,
the last parameter of mdquerycreate
is a CFArray containing the
names of the attributes you
want to sort in ascending order.
But you can do further sorting,
but you have to provide
your own callback function.
So for example,
the search menu sorts the dates
in descending order and names
of the files in ascending order.
You can do that kind of stuff.
You have to provide the
callback on your own.
The other thing you'd like to do is scope
the query to a particular directory.
So maybe you only want to search
the person's home directory
or only a particular volume
or only a particular hard drive.
Finder lets you do this when you set the
search scope in the little search slices.
So we'll go back to the demo
machine again and we'll end up
and I'll add sorting and the
scoping of the individual queries.
The thing to know about the
sorting and the scoping,
you need to do this
before the query execute.
After the query is executed,
you cannot change any of these values.
So if we go back here,
now that we've created-- so
now we've created the query.
The first thing I want to do-- oh, sorry.
Instead of creating the
query-- so in the past-- oops.
Oh, jeez.
So I'm going to create the query now.
So the last parameter,
I'm going to pass it a CFArray or
an NSArray in this case,
and I want to sort by display name.
So it's just the array
containing all the strings.
I could have easily added
more and more attributes.
So that's that.
So now they'll be sorted.
And then the next step to do is I want
to limit the scope of the query to only
search in the person's home directory.
So in this case, I have the query again.
I call mdquery setSearchScope.
The first parameter is the query.
The second parameter is an array of
CFStrings containing the path or
CFURLs pointing to the path where
you want to search for your files.
Here you can also pass,
there's a bunch of known
constants you can pass.
In this case I'm passing KMD query
scope home to only limit it to
the person's home directory.
There's some to limit it to just
the network or the entire computer.
So if we do the same query
again and I type Lotus,
I'll get nine matches
instead of the previous time,
which I think I got 18 because
it found the rest of the files
on the rest of the hard drive.
So these are just the pictures
in my home directory instead
of a picture of a lotus,
which was somewhere else of a flower.
Okay,
can we switch back to the slides again,
please?
So the last thing I'm going to talk
about is fetching the query attributes.
So basically, all this entails is as
your query is executing,
the query is actually sorted
on the client library.
So in order to make this more efficient,
what happens with the server sends--
when we send the request back to
the server to get the query results,
we send it another message saying,
please send us these list of
attributes along with the result.
So basically,
if you can conceptually think of
this as the query starting the array
of the results and alongside of it,
it's got an array.
So the first array is array of empty
item refs and alongside it is another
array of the attribute values.
So if you're sorting by display
name and author as an example,
which-- so in this case,
I'm doing it by content type.
So when I sort by these values,
I've also got them locally
in the client library.
So it would make sense for
you to have access to this.
So this is all basically a bulk call.
So as I get the results,
send me back these values because
I'm going to need them immediately.
The only reason,
the big reason why you want to do this,
because every time you're making,
so we do this in the sorting
because if we kept doing,
to sort them we would need the value
and to get the value we'd have to
make a round trip back to the server,
ask it for the value and get
the value back and sort them.
If we were sorting 100,000 items we
would be sending 100,000 message,
100,000 plus messages
as we're doing the sort.
So to get these values,
there's only two basic calls.
So if you, once again,
if you conceptually think of the
query as storing off to the side,
so we have an array of the MD item
refs that we're interested,
and then off to the side we have
another array of the attribute values.
So it seems that we only need two calls.
So we call mdQueryGetIndexOfResult
given the query,
and then the mditemref that we're
interested in will give you the index on
that second array of the value you want.
And then to look up values
within that sort of subarray,
we call
mdQueryGetAttributeValuesOfResultAtIndex.
The first parameter is the query,
the second parameter is
the attribute that I want,
content type, and then last is the index.
If the value is not there or it's empty,
you'll get a nil back.
So, and that was the talk.
So I'll invite Xavier back.
So, as you notice,
it's not that much code in your
program to try to do a query.
It's very, very simple.
So you should all try to integrate it
in quickly within your application.
Hello, hello.
OK, so to summarize, I think today,
between Dominic's talk this morning
about plugins and our talk on MD queries,
I hope we gave you a
good overview of how you,
as a developer,
can integrate with this great technology.
I mean, you've all seen all the marketing
we've been pushing behind Tiger.
Spotlight is obviously number one.
I think there are really a lot
of things that you guys can do
on your side of the fence in your
application to take advantage of that,
to distinguish yourself
from the marketplace,
but as well to bring tremendous
innovation on the platform
with your application.
So remember,
there are a couple of things I want
you to remember from today's talk.
The first one is that Spotlight is
totally integrated inside Mac OS X Tiger.
So for you as a developer, number one,
if you have your own file type,
if you have your custom file format
that your application generates,
please do write a Spotlight importer.
OK, very, very important.
Then after that-- So with that,
obviously, I think-- I hope today we
gave you a quick overview,
and we really convinced you that
adding query APIs inside your
application could make a lot of sense.
And hopefully,
we showed you the different ways you
can integrate that in your application.
For more information,
we have a couple of new features.
Today, this afternoon, the UTI.
Obviously, we talked this morning,
UTIs are very important
across Mac OS X now,
the Unified Type Identifiers.
And so Chris actually will be talking
later on at five about UTIs and how
you can declare them in your plugins,
inside your application,
whatever different things
you should look for.
The lab, which starts,
if I'm not mistaken, not at noon,
but at five, I think, is that correct?
3:30, very soon in all cases,
so check your little agendas.
Where you have actually the
Spotlight team pretty much there to
answer any questions you may have.
You know, it could be like on plugins
or on the MD Query APIs,
it doesn't matter.
Just come by, talk to us.
I know this morning a couple
of folks had questions,
and so this is a great way to
get your questions answered.
And if you want to learn
more about the file system,
we have a session as well on Thursday,
Tuesday, Thursday,
today at 5:00 And Dominique will
be part of that if you want to
learn more about the file system.
Correct.
And thank you for reminding
me that there is another lab
tomorrow morning starting at 9:00.
And we hope to see you there.
And thank you.
One thing that is very important,
whatever you're doing,
if you're going to write
using the MD Query APIs,
if you're going to do a Spotlight plugin,
please send me an email.
We want to track who's doing what and
we hope we can help you actually promote
the integration of Tiger technologies
inside your application.